<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JSR 348 Working Group minutes: Junly 20, 2011</title></head><body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 348 Working Group Meeting Minutes<br>
  20 July 2011</h1>
<h2>Meeting details</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Date
    &amp; Time
    <ul>
           <li>Wednesday July 20, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time<br />
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Teleconference</li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Early Draft Review status.</li>
  <li>Review of open issues.</li>
  <li>Review of Standing Rules document.</li>
  <li>Next steps.</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran </li>
  <li>Eduardo Gutentag </li>
  <li>Martijn Verburg</li>
  <li>Scott Stark</li>
  <li>Werner Keil  </li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Alex Terrazzo</li>
  <li>John Weir  </li>
  <li>Bruno Souza </li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe </li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p><em><strong>Early Draft Review status</strong></em></p>
<ul>
  <li>We are in EDR (until 12th August)</li>
  <li>We have 11 non-Oracle, non-EC subscribers to the Observers alias </li>
  <li>No substantive comments via the Observers alias</li>
  <li>No postings on the discussion forum </li>
  <li>One member has submitted several comments/suggestions on the issue-tracker.
    <ul>
      <li>Need someone to evaluate and respond</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Not a lot of feedback - all should encourage</li>
  <li>Patrick to email Java Champions and JUG Leaders aliases</li>
  <li>Promote at OSCON  </li>
</ul>
<p><em><strong>Review of open issues</strong></em></p>
<ul>
  <li>Some of the open issues will be reviewed by those of us who will be at
     OSCON next week. Patrick will initiate discussion on the Experts alias for
    others. </li>
  <li>Patrick will comment some issues, close some issues.</li>
  <li>Specific comments and assignments are listed below. </li>
  <li>The Transfer Ballot process is under-specified - Eduardo will draft additional
    language </li>
  <li>Should JSR Renewal ballots be unconditionally initiated when a JSR misses
    its deadline? 
  - Patrick
    <ul>
      <li>PMO to report at EC meetings on JSRs that are approaching the deadline.
        This will initiate discussion prior to any ballot. </li>
      <li>Always do a ballot when the deadline is reached. Members will be encouraged
        to comment their ballot responses if they vote not to terminate a JSR. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Should Maintenance Leads be obliged to provide the final materials within
  a specified time-period after Maintenance Review?
    <ul>
      <li>Patrick to re-initiate discussion</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Clean up wording on changes to licensing terms - Patrick</li>
  <li>Specify issue-tracking requirements in more detail
    <ul>
      <li>More discussion needed. </li>
      <li>How do we know that all issues have been addressed? What must the EG
        do? Must they publish something? Who polices this? Beware imposing too
        much process on Spec Leads. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>The prohibition on employees of JCP Members voting or running for election
  as individuals doesn't go far enough - Patrick </li>
  <li>It should be mandatory to provide maintenance releases of corresponding
  affected specifications.
    <ul>
      <li>We can't mandate maintenance releases, but section  <em>1.0.1
        Revise Existing Specifications</em> of the Process Doc already addresses
        this. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Apache licence should be required or promoted for Specification RI and
    TCK - on the list for JSR2    </li>
  <li>Publish list of accepted TCK licences - on the list for JSR2    </li>
  <li>EG/TCK Members/Observers mailing list must be consolidated
    <ul>
      <li>We require that <em>All substantive business must
        be carried out on a public alias. </em>W e don't specify exactly how
        to do this, nor should we, so this particular issue may not even apply. </li>
      <li>Martijn wants further discussion.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Remove TCK non-compete clauses/language
    <ul>
      <li>More complex than can be done in JSR1 - should be discussed for JSR2 </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>TCK should be freely available for users to run and verify their implementation
  of choice
    <ul>
      <li>More complex than can be done in JSR1 - should be discussed for JSR2</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Reverse language referring to discussion of individual TCK test results
  with general public
    <ul>
      <li>Already done. Submitter is working from outdated documents (not from
        the actual EDR draft of the Process Document) </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Allow legal council from all JCP members to contribute to review of artifacts
  (docs, licences, terms of use, etc.)
    <ul>
      <li>Presumably &quot;all JCP members&quot; should be replaced by &quot;all EC members.&quot;
        This already happens.</li>
      <li>As for the comment that we should form a &quot;board&quot; of legal counsel from
        all members, that is impractical, and would slow everything down to a
        crawl. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Add GitHub to the list of approved collaboration software
    <ul>
      <li>There will be no list of &quot;approved collaboration software&quot; (submitter
        is working from an outdated draft) </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Make annual JCP event meeting at JavaOne truly open (no fees)
    <ul>
      <li>Looking into this.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>    Signing the JSPA should done electronically - Patrick has already addressed
    this</li>
  <li>Expert groups must not be dispanded after final release - we have already
    considered this, but didn't yet open an issue 
    <ul>
      <li>Much more discussion needed - it's complicated, and involves IP grants </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Concept of maintenance release should be replaced with semi-annual release
    <ul>
      <li>We can't mandate how Spec Leads do their work, nor can we force them
        to do a maintentance release (see issue JSR348-10)</li>
      <li>These suggestions should be addressed to the EE Spec Lead. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Sean's comment on <em>How many consecutive meetings must an EC member miss
    before losing their seat?
    </em>
    <ul>
      <li>We agreed to drop the number of consecutive meetings from six to five,
        and to add language stating that missing 2/3 of the meetings in any (rolling)
        12-month period would also result in loss of seat. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p><em><strong>Review of Standing Rules document</strong></em></p>
<ul>
  <li>Mike to remind people to review and comment. </li>
  <li>In particular, it would be useful to have further discussion about the
  <strong>  <em>for discussion or for decisio</em></strong><em><strong>n</strong> </em>language.
  How strict should we be? </li>
</ul>
<p><strong><em>Next steps</em></strong></p>
<ul>
  <li>We have three weeks to complete our Public Review Draft (for approval at
    the August 10 EC meeting) </li>
  <li>Need to be finished (address all comments in two weeks)</li>
  <li>Neither Patrick nor Mike is available next Wednesday. Patrick will run
    a Doodle poll to figure out whether to reschedule for Tuesday, Thursday,
  or Friday. </li>
  </ul>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
</body>
</html>