<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JSR 348 Working Group minutes: June 15, 2011</title>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
.highlight {	background-color: #FFFF00;
}
-->
</style>
</head>
<body>
<h1 align="center">Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group Meeting <br>
15 June 2011</h1>

<h2>Meeting details</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Date
    &amp; Time
    <ul>
           <li>Wednesday June 15, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time<br />
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Teleconference</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran</li>
  <li>Roger Mahler</li>
  <li>Bruno Souza</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Eduardo Gutentag</li>
  <li>Scott Stark</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>John Rizzo</li>
  <li>Martijn Verburg   </li>
  <li>Alex Terrazas </li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Heather Vancura  </li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Review <a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr348/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-08-Minutes.html">minutes</a> from
    last
  week's meeting.</li>
  <li>Review <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/AIs.html">Action Items</a>.</li>
  <li>Status of alias problem.</li>
  <li>Review suggested changes submitted to date.
    <ul>
      <li>See updated <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June14.html">JSR1
      list</a>. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Review
  schedule and milestones .</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<h3>Review minutes from
  last week's meeting</h3>
<p>Last week's minutes were approved</p>
<h3>Review suggested changes submitted to date</h3>
<p>We reviewed each of the items listed from JSR1 list, focusing on those where
  we do not seem to have a consensus. For a full list of resulting AIs see the
  version of the  <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working documents/JSR1-list-June15.html">JSR1
  list</a> that was updated after the meeting. </p>
<p><em><strong>1.1 Expert Group transparency</strong></em></p>
<p>Alex to submit a proposal for 1.1.1 and then to incorporate 1.1.1, 1.1.2
and 1.1.3 into a General Procedures section labeled <em>Expert Group transparency</em></p>
<p><em><strong>1.3 License transparency</strong></em></p>
<p>We discussed - and did not reach agreement - whether all items in this section
  should be placed in the new General Procedures section or whether they should
  be noted &quot;in place&quot; (in one of the subsequent &quot;JSR phase&quot; sections.)
  We considered putting the primary text in one place and referencing from other(s.)
  For example, on the requirement to disclose license changes we could either
  put a brief reference (in the General Procedures section and then put details
  in the Maintenance and JSR Submission section (pointing to them from the General
  section) or put the details in the General section, and then reference from
the other sections. Alex agreed to draft something for further discussion.</p>
<p>We discussed the concerns John Rizzo raised on the alias - &quot;any
  party that wishes to accept the [TCK license] terms as offered must be able
  to do so stand alone and without the burden of licenses outside of the targeted
  TCK.&quot; Patrick agreed to forward on to the alias a previous discussion he and
John had on this topic. </p>
<p><em><strong>1.4 TCK transparency</strong></em></p>
<p>Patrick agreed to incorporate into 1.4.1 Bill Shannon's
  suggestion that if a list of compatible implementations is published elsewhere
  (for example, the Java EE team maintains such a list) then the PMO's list may
  simply reference it. <strong>DONE</strong>. </p>
<p>Patrick also agreed to incorporate a suggested change from John Rizzo, clarifying
  that only implementations that <em> have been released publicly or commercially</em> need
  be disclosed. <strong>DONE</strong></p>
<p>We discussed John  Rizzo's concern
  about the possibility of confidentiality clauses being inserted into  &quot;personalized&quot;
  TCK licenses. Patrick reiterated the response he made to the alias: that Process
  Document requirements must be met by all Spec Leads and all licenses.</p>
<p><em><strong>2. Participation</strong></em></p>
<p>It was pointed out that in the case of an unreactive or unresponsive spec
  lead it might not be possible to get 2/3 of EG members to vote. (John
  Rizzo noted  that some of the MSA JSRs had more than 50 members, but the
  great majority of these were simply passive observers.) We therefore considered
  the possibility of requiring only 2/3 of those who vote, possibly together
  with a required minimum number of votes. Alternatively, we could simply state
  that if a certain number of members complained to the PMO the EC would investigate
  and potentially take action.</p>
<p>Eduardo agreed to draft two alternatives for 2.2.2 and 2.2.3 that could be
  further discussed by email.</p>
<p>We agreed to strike 2.3.2 (penalties for not voting) since we can't devise
  any way to implement this in practice.</p>
<p>We further agreed that the  question of mandatory
  attendance at f2f meetings and whether or not we should provide teleconference
  facilities needs  broader discussion.</p>
<p><em><strong>3.2 and 3.3 Clarify/Clean up the Maintenance process</strong></em></p>
<p>We didn't spend much time discussing this, but Patrick believes it's complex
  enough that we should spend more time on it. </p>
<p><em><strong>3.4 Clarify requirements for RI and TCK to be posted
within x weeks of Final Release</strong></em></p>
<p>Bill Shannon has made comments on this proposal. Patrick will forward them
on to the Experts alias.</p>
<p><em><strong>4. Facilitating the EC merge</strong></em></p>
<p> Mike DeNicola suggests moving the entire section on 5 (EC policies and procedures)
   out of Process Doc into Standing
  Rules. Eduardo and Patrick expressed concern that this was too radical a change.
  We agreed that further discussion was necessary. Mike agreed to take another
  look at his proposal.</p>
<h3>Next steps </h3>
<p>The goal for next week will be to incorporate the  non-controversial existing
  suggestions into the two documents so that we can focus our discussions on
  the few (3 or 4?) items where we don't yet have consensus. </p>
<p>Patrick has updated the <a href="http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working documents/JSR1-list-June15.html">JSR1
    list</a>, annotating with the status of each task,
  and embedding a TODO list.</p>
<h3>Report on the aliases</h3>
<p>[Not reported in detail during the meeting due to lack of time.]</p>
<p>The experts and observers aliases, as originally set up (whereby observers
  was subscribed to experts) do not work as expected:</p>
<p>1) Messages sent to experts
  and relayed to observers are not archived in observers - only in experts. This
  is supposedly a &quot;feature&quot; but seems very like a bug to me :)</p>
<p>2)  Anyone who is not subscribed to observers (as most EC/EG members are not)
  will receive a &quot;message denied&quot; response from observers when messages that
  are posted to experts are relayed to observers. This is by design - only subscribers
  can post to the observer alis. </p>
<p>As a workaround for problem #1, either posters to experts will need to explicitly
  copy observers, or we'll need to create a front-end alias (on jcp.org?) that
  will copy to both.</p>
<p>As a workaround for problem #2 the observers alias will need to be moderated,
  so that messages posted to it by non-subscribers can be manually approved for
  distribution.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<blockquote>&nbsp;</blockquote>
</body></html>