<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JSR 348 Expert Group minutes: June 1, 2011</title></head><body>
<h1 align="center">Minutes of JSR 348 Expert Group Meeting <br>
1 June 2011</h1>

<h2>Meeting details</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Date
    &amp; Time
    <ul>
           <li>Wednesday June 1, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time<br />
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Ballot results </li>
  <li>Review <a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr348/Meeting materials - pre Expert Group/2011-05-25-Minutes.html">minutes</a> from
    last week's meeting </li>
  <li>Plan for submission of proposal for Expert Group's working style to
  full EG at June 7 EC meeting</li>
  <li>Next steps </li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Attendees</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran</li>
  <li>Mark Rogalski</li>
  <li>Radomir Vencek</li>
  <li>Alex Terazzas</li>
  <li>Chris Wood</li>
  <li>Calinel Pasteanu</li>
  <li>Christoph Kuhmuench </li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Ben Evans</li>
  <li>Heather Vancura</li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Sean Sheedy</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>John Rizzo</li>
  <li>Bruno Souza</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p><em><strong>Ballot Results </strong></em></p>
<ul>
  <li>SE/EE EC: 15 yes, 1 did not vote (Google)</li>
  <li>ME EC: 11 yes, 5 did not vote (AT&amp;T, Stefano Andreani, SK Telecom, Samsung,
    Vodafone)</li>
  <li>See <a href="http://jcp.org/en/jsr/results?id=5209">http://jcp.org/en/jsr/results?id=5209</a></li>
</ul>
<p><em><strong>Review minutes from last meeting</strong></em></p>
<p>Mike DeNicola confirmed that he will chair the Working Group. Meetings that
  are labeled (in advance) as Expert Group rather thanWG meetings will be chaired
  by Patrick. </p>
<p>We agreed that we'll probably need some additional f2f meetings of the WG.
  Patrick to poll for suitable dates.</p>
<p>Patrick to poll re moving back the date of the August EC meeting to allow
  time for public review . </p>
<p><em><strong>Plans for EC meeting on June 7</strong></em></p>
<p>Tighten up last week's minutes into a formal presentation/document for review
  and approval at June 7 EC meeting.</p>
<p>Review the JSR1 list for new members' benefits.  </p>
<p><em><strong>Next steps</strong></em></p>
<p>Will Eduardo be the official maintainer/editor of our two documents?</p>
<p>How to proceed with editing the docs? Use the JSR1 list as a starting point.
  Assign people to draft  language where necessary. Discuss and review proposed
  changes on  the alias. Pass to the editor for inclusion. Review.</p>
<p>Rinse, repeat....</p>
<p>NOTE: we agree that will do work in between meetings, on the alias...  </p>
<p>We agreed to meet at our usual time next Wednesday after the EC meeting
  on Tuesday. We will need Eduardo. </p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<p><br />
</p>
<blockquote>
  <p><br />
  </p>
</blockquote>
</body></html>