<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JSR 348 Working Group meeting minutes: June 29, 2011</title></head><body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 348 Working Group Meeting Minutes<br>
  29 June 2011</h1>
<h2>Meeting details</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Date
    &amp; Time
    <ul>
           <li>Wednesday June 29, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time<br />
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Teleconference</li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Review <a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr348/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-22-Minutes.html">minutes</a> from
    last week's meeting.</li>
  <li>Report from Patrick on state of updated docs. </li>
  <li>Review open items:
    <ul><li>Clarify <em>Terms of Use</em> for collaboration software used
      by Expert Groups.</li>
      <li>Maintenance Process clarification.
        <ul>
          <li>Comments on the current draft? </li>
          <li>Set time-limit for delivery of final materials for Maintenance
            Release? </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
      <li>Preparation for the Merge. </li>
      <li>Section 5: EC Procedures</li>
      <li>EC Standing Rules  </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Issue tracking </li>
  <li> Review scheduleand milestones.</li>
  <li>Next steps.</li>
</ul>
<h3>Attendees</h3>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran </li>
  <li>David Bosschaert </li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Roger Mahler</li>
  <li>Don Deutsch</li>
  <li>Alex Terrazas  </li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Ben Evans</li>
</ul>
<h3>Minutes</h3>
<p><em><strong>Review of minutes</strong></em></p>
<p>We were unable to review last week's minutes due to java.net problems.</p>
<p><strong><em>Terms of Use for collaboration software  </em></strong></p>
<p>Patrick reviewed the current draft language - basically a &quot;caveat emptor&quot;
  to the Spec Lead. It was suggested that we might want to issue some kind
  of warning notice to people who join discussion aliases that their contributions
  might not be accepted unless they have signed the JSPA. However, we also agreed
  that vague language such as this would not provide any kind of legal cover,
and might in fact be misleading. </p>
<p>This will need further discussion - involving legal advice - but is good enough
  for EDR. </p>
<p><em><strong>Maintenance</strong></em></p>
<p>We discussed whether Maintenance Leads should be &quot;obliged&quot; to provide the
  final materials within a certain time-period after Maintenance Review. We agreed
  that this would be difficult to implement since there are no penalties that
  we can impose.</p>
<p>Some suggestions were:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Ask the ML to provide an estimate of the time they expect to deliver the
    final materials.
    <ul>
      <li>This can't hurt, and might help the PMO to follow-up, but of course
        would be non-binding. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Require the ML to go through Maintenance Review again if they fail to deliver
    final materials within six(?) months.
    <ul>
      <li>The second review couldn't force a change, but this would at least
      be an incentive for the ML to follow through. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Declare the JSR <em><strong> Dormant</strong></em> if the ML doesn't deliver
    within a specified period.
    <ul>
      <li>How to get out of this state? Presumably this would need another Maintenance
        Review, in which case this suggestion is almost the same as the second.
        <ul>
          <li>It  would apply some extra pressure on the ML. </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p>We agreed to continue this discussion by email. Patrick will start the thread.</p>
<p><strong><em>Preparation for the EC merge</em></strong></p>
<p>We agreed that there is no need to try to &quot;purge&quot; the Process Doc of all references
  to 2 ECs, the number of members, the terms they serve, etc. Instead, we will
  introduce a second JSR that will focus only on the merge. We could start working
  on this as soon as our September EC meeting.</p>
<p><em><strong>Section 5: EC Procedures</strong></em></p>
<p> Patrick will do another pass through this section. </p>
<p><em><strong>EC Standing Rules</strong></em></p>
<p>We agreed to postpone further work on this document until after EDR.</p>
<p><strong><em>Issue Tracking</em></strong></p>
<p>Patrick reported that the JSR1-list has now served its purpose. All of the
  items on it have now been incorporated into our documents. From now on we should
  use the issue-tracker to define and track issues. Patrick will send instructions
  on how to do this when java.net comes back to life. </p>
<p><em><strong>Next steps</strong></em></p>
<p>Patrick to create and circulate &quot;final drafts&quot; of the EDR documents. Mike
  and Patrick will remind EC members to review these, and to send comments to
  the alias, before the July 12 EC meeting. </p>
<p>There
  will probably be no need for a WG meeting next week unless we get significant
  feedback that needs discussion (neither Patrick nor Eduardo
  would be able to attend.) Mike will ask EG members to reserve the time-slot
  anyway in case we need it, and will run the meeting if necessary.</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<blockquote>
  <p>&nbsp;</p>
</blockquote>
</body></html>