<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JSR 348 Working Group minutes: August 17, 2011</title></head><body>
<h1 align="center">JSR 348 Working Group Meeting minutes <br>
  17 August 2011</h1>
<h2>Meeting details</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Teleconference, Friday August 5, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am PDT</li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendees</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran </li>
  <li>Victor Grazi</li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Ben Evans</li>
  <li>Mark Rogalski</li>
  <li>Eduardo Gutentag</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Werner Keil       </li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Review minutes from last meeting </li>
  <li>Public Review status<br />
  </li>
  <li>Review of open issues
    <ul>
        <li>See<a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr348/Meeting Materials/OpenIssues-2011-08-17.html"> summary </a><br />
        </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Schedule and next steps</li>
</ul>
<h3>Minutes</h3>
<p><em><strong>Review minutes from last meeting </strong></em></p>
<p>We did not review the minutes from the last meeting (the EC meeting last week)
  since minutes have not yet been published, and when they are they will be formally
  reviewed by the full EC.</p>
<p><em><strong>Public Review status </strong></em></p>
<ul>
  <li>Public Review started at midnight last Friday, closes September 12 </li>
  <li>Patrick has blogged, sent email to Java Champions and JUG Leader aliases.</li>
  <li>Not much new feedback yet, except from Alex Buckley and Bill Shannon (both
  from Oracle) </li>
  <li>Patrick encouraged members to do internal reviews and provide feedback
    soon - don't leave it until the end of the Public Review period </li>
  <li> We have 16 non-EC/non-Oracle subscribers on the Observers alias.</li>
  <li> We have ~33 open issues.</li>
</ul>
<p><em><strong>Review of Open Issues</strong></em></p>
<p>We reviewed the <a href="http://java.net/downloads/jsr348/Meeting Materials/OpenIssues-2011-08-17.html">Open
Issues</a> list. Patrick will update the list and comment individual issues as
necessary. Here are some specific comments on particular issues that came out
of our discussion:</p>
<ul>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-68">Clarify that the JSPA is sufficient
for contributions </a>
    <ul>
      <li>No &quot;side agreements&quot; should be necessary/required </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-82">The definition of Dormant
      needs clarification</a>
    <ul>
      <li>Define as not being actively developed and no further development anticipated,
        or has been declared such by the PMO</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-64">Should there be a limit
      on the number of members from a single company/organization who can join
      an Expert Group?</a>
      <ul>
        <li>Some members of the WG stated that they didn't see a need to specify
          this.</li>
        <li>If we do, we might want to make the language advisory: &quot;no more
          than x members from any one organization should...&quot;</li>
        <li>Please comment the issue with your opinions</li>
      </ul>
  </li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-48">Should the PMO be referred
      to as &quot;who&quot; or &quot;which&quot;?</a>
    <ul>
      <li>We agreed to use the  grammatically correct &quot;which&quot;</li>
    </ul>
</li>
  <li><a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-84">Should Mailing List be
      a defined term?</a>
    <ul>
      <li>We should make allowance for the possibility of alternative forms of
        communication. For example, a discussion forum or a Wiki</li>
      <li>As an alternative to a formal definition we might just say, the first
        time we use the term, &quot;or equivalent software
        such as a discussion forum or a Wiki&quot; </li>
    </ul>
</li>
  <li>Classes of membership
    <ul>
      <li>Patrick reviewed the description of what we're trying to achieve (see
        comments in <a href="http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-86">Improve
      clarity of Member definition</a>)      </li>
      <li>Proposed solution: delete the definition of <em>Member
          Representative</em> and
        create a new definition of <em>Representative</em> (someone, for example
        an employee, contractor, or officer, who is authorized
        to act on behalf of a company or an organization .) We can
        then still use the term  <em>Member Representative</em>, but can also refer to
        <em>Representatives of non-Members</em>.</li>
      <li>Comment: limiting the number of individual members who are
        employees of non-members may inhibit ultimately recruiting
        that company.
        <ul>
          <li>Patrick: we need to guard against gaming the system. </li>
        </ul>
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <ul>
    <li>Possibly have different limits on numbers of Member and non-Member Representatives?</li>
  </ul>
  <li>Clarify the Maintenance Release process
    <ul>
      <li>We briefly reviewed the related issues, but did not have time for discussion.
        Members are encouraged to review and comment these issues. We will make
        this topic the main focus of next week's Working Group meeting. </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
</ul>
<p><em><strong>Schedule and next steps</strong></em></p>
<p>Patrick reminded members that we have only three more meetings before our
  f2f meeting in New Jersey, when we will need to begin finalizing our Proposed
  Final Draft. He encouraged all EG members, and others, to provide their feedback
  soon. (If all the feedback comes in during the final week of the Public Review
  it will make it difficult to process and incorporate.)</p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
<p>&nbsp; </p>
</body>
</html>