# Minutes of JCP.next Working Group Meeting  
25 May 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday May 25, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

## **Agenda**

*   Finalize proposal for Expert Group's working style (for submission to full EG at June 7 EC meeting)
*   Review [java.net project](http://java.net/projects/jsr348)
*   Review proposals in detail, clarifying where language must be drafted.

## **Attendees**

*   Patrick Curran
*   Don Deutsch
*   Chris Wood
*   Alex Terazzas
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Scott Jameson
*   Ben Evans
*   Mark Little
*   Bruno Souza
*   Werner Keil

## Minutes

_**The Expert Group's working style**_

We reviewed and discussed the proposals made at last week's meeting. The following decisions were made:

*   A Working Group will be formed to do the detailed work of developing this JSR. Mike DeNicola has volunteered to chair it.
*   All EG (EC) members will be encouraged to join the Working Group. We anticipate that core group of members will attend most Working Group meetings, but recognize that others will attend from time to time. The Chair of the Working Group will have to manage the meetings so that the need to bring occasional attendees up to speed doesn't hinder the group's work unnecessarily.
*   The Working Group intends to operate by consensus (defined as general, but not necessarily unanimous, agreement) than by voting. We recognize that some items will be controversial and that we may not be able to achieve unamimity. In case of serious disagreement, those who disagree will be encouraged to publish a dissenting opinion. (The full Expert Group will operate in a similar manner.)
*   The Working Group will meet approximately weekly.
*   The Working Group will report back regularly to the full Expert Group (all EC members) and will expect them to follow - and ultimately to approve - its work. No additional meetings of the EC (or full Expert Group) will be called, but some of scheduled Working Group meetings will be classified as full Expert Group meetings, with all members encouraged to attend.

_**Schedule**_

We discussed the JSR's schedule, noting that our goal is to complete the JSR before the October elections.

The JSR proposal includes this schedule (the precise dates for the Final Approval Ballot have been added to ensure that this completes before the elections.)

*   **JSR submittal:** May 2011
*   **Early Draft Review:** July 2011
*   **Public Draft Review:** August 2011
*   **Proposed Final Draft:** September 2011
*   **Final Approval Ballot:** October 4-17 2011

Aligning currently-scheduled EC meetings (to which the Working Group will report) with these milestones suggests the following schedule:

*   **7 June**: approve the formation of the Expert Group, its working style, and its transparency plan.
*   **12 July**: approve Early Draft Review - 30 day review period starts
*   **16 August**: approve Public Review (we will need to move this back by up to a week to allow time for the 30-day review before the f2f meeting)
*   **13-14 September (f2f meeting)**: work on and resolve remaining issues with the Proposed Final Draft
*   **30 September**: publish Proposed Final Draft - 30 day review period starts
*   **October 4-17**: Final Approval Ballot
*   **October 18:** election starts

We agreed that if necessary the proposed merge of the two ECs could be broken out from JSR2 into a separate JSR (1.5) This would separate it from the complex JSPA revisions, potentially enabling it to be completed sooner.

**_Transparency plan_**

Patrick demo'd the [java.net Project](http://java.net/projects/jsr348) that he has created for this JSR. It contains the following features:

*   Two mail aliases: one for the Expert Group and one for Observers. The Observers alias will be subscribed to the Expert Group alias so that subscribers to that alias will receive copies of all EG messages. The EG alias will be protected, while anyone will be able to subscribe to - and therefore to write to - the Observer alias. EG members need not subscribe to the Observer alias if they wish to avoid being flooded by mail from outside the EG. (Some EG members, of course, must monitor the Observer mail.) Messages to these aliases will contain standard strings in the Subject line to permit filtering.
*   A Wiki that will be used to present information in a structured manner (it will not be opened up for public or even for Expert Group writing)
*   A discussion forum. (People will be encouraged to use this rather than the Observer alias, in order to keep mail traffic down.)
*   A file download area, where all of our documents and materials are stored. (We have the option of using a formal version-control system for our documents, but decided that this is overkill. We'll ensure that the version and/or date is encoded in the filename.
*   An issue-tracker to be used to track formal comments and issues. (We still need to figure out the mechanism for submitting comments - perhaps another alias, or perhaps simply a required string in the subject-line of messages to the Observer alias?)

We discussed the possibility of requiring that people become formal "Observers" of the JSR348 Project before being able to perform certain actions. While we see some value in requiring java.net registration, we see no need to require any further "commitment" to obtain full access to the collaboration features. However, in order to allow EC members time to get approval or the java.net terms of use we decided to start with very liberal access (anyone can read and download, only registered java.net users can write to the forum, EG members will be automatically subscribed to the Experts alias and will be able to write to it.)

_**Next week's meeting**_

Assuming that the JSR is approved, next week's meeting will be a full Expert Group meeting. All EC members (that is, all members of the Expert Group) are encouraged to attend.