<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JCP.next Working Group agenda: January 5, 2011</title></head><body>
<h1 align="center">JCP.next Working Group Meeting <br>
December 16 2010</h1>

<h2><strong>Date</strong> &amp; Time </h2>
<p>December 16 , 2010, 8:00 am - 10:00 am Pacific time </p>
<h2>Location</h2>
<p>Teleconference</p>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Meeting logistics</li>
  <li>Transparency plan</li>
  <li>JSR logistics</li>
  <li>List of items to work on (see the latest <a href="http://www2.jcp.org/aboutJava/communityprocess/ec-private/materials/2010-11-09/JCP.next.pdf">jcp.next
      presentation</a> for a starting point.)
      <ul>
        <li>Additional items</li>
      </ul>
  </li>
  <li>JSR timeline</li>
</ul>
<h2>Membership</h2>
<p>The following EC members had previously volunteered to join the Working Group. </p>
<ul>
  <li>Michael Bechauf (SAP) <br />
  </li>
  <li>John Rizzo (Aplix) <br />
  </li>
  <li>Scott Jameson (HP)</li>
  <li>Edin Bektesevic</li>
  <li>Stefano Andreani<br />
  </li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe (IBM)</li>
  <li>Mark Little (RedHat)</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola (Fujitsu)</li>
  <li>James Warden (RIM)</li>
  <li>Roger Mahler (AT&amp;T) </li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<p>The following members attended this meeting of the WG. </p>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran<br />
  </li>
  <li>Harold Ogle</li>
  <li>John Rizzo</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe<br />
  </li>
  <li>Edin Bektesevic</li>
  <li>Heather VanCura</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<h3>Meeting logistics</h3>
<p>We agreed to start by meeting weekly, for an hour. We may reduce the frequency
  if attendance is too low. We'll hold our next meeting during the first week
  in January. </p>
<p>We recognized that work would need to be carried on between meetings - people
  would be given &quot;assignments&quot; and would be asked to report back. </p>
<p>We agreed to meet face-to-face after each of the EC f2f meetings. We
  discussed the possibility of additional face-to-face meetings of the WG. Patrick
  agreed to hold a Doodle poll to figure out whether, when, and where we could
  meet in March. </p>
<p>Patrick noted that we will need legal advice for at least some of our work.
  He had asked Oracle's lawyer to join the group but was told that this wouldn't
  be possible until permission had been obtained from the lawyers of all other
  EC members. (This is an ethical issue - an Oracle attorney cannot represent
  or provide advice to others without the consent of their attorneys.) We discussed
  possible ways to work around this (perhaps hiring an independent counsel.)
We agreed that in practice we will work the business issues and then everyone
  will pass this off for their own lawyers to review.</p>
<p>NOTE: after the meeting Patrick had additional discussions with Oracle's lawyers.
  Hiring independent counsel really isn't practical, so before the Oracle lawyer
  can participate we really will need to talk to everyone else's lawyer. He will
  follow up by email. (In the meantime, we can certainly continue to work.)</p>
<h3>Transparency plan</h3>
<p>We need to provide a <em>Transparency Plan</em> with the JSR submission, to
  explain how we will involve the community, and allow them to see and comment
  on our work. Patrick explained that he wanted to use the infrastructure provided
  by jcp.org (the aliases, bulletin boards, etc.) for this purpose in order to
gain some practical experience of how well this serves the needs of Spec Leads.</p>
<p>The process is started by filing a JSR. Once the JSR is posted a <em>Click
    here to join this Expert Group</em> link is created on the JSR's main page
    on jcp.org.  Members
  of the Working Group (and other EC members who want to closely watch what we
  do) will need to register as members of the &quot;Expert Group&quot; through this mechanism.
  (Because the true Expert Group is composed of the entire membership of the
    ECs we will modify
    the text on the JSR's page to explain the situation. </p>
<p>Three email aliases will then be automatically generated:</p>
<ul>
  <li>jsr-xxx-eg - a private alias for the Expert Group with an associated private
    bulletin board </li>
  <li>jsr-xxx-observer - an alias and associated bulletin board;  
    anyone who registered on jcp.org can request to be subscribed to the alias
    and when subscribed will have write-access </li>
  <li>jsr-xxx-public - a public bulletin board to which messages can be mailed,
    but that lacks a two-way email gateway </li>
</ul>
<p>After some discussion we decided to use the  jsr-xxx-eg alias for administrative
  and (very occasional) private discussions and the jsr-xxx-observer alias for
  everything else. This will mean that anyone who wishes to will be able to read
  about and comment on our work. Until these aliases are created Patrick will
  circulate minutes and materials to the entire EC alias. Anything circulated
  in this manner will later be archived on jcp.org. </p>
<p>In addition, we will use either the file-upload mechanisms provided by jcp.org
  (there are two: one that's private to EG members and one that's visible to
  the public) or preferably a Wiki to publish documents and works in progress.
  (We can't use a Wiki until some configuration changes are made to prevent random
  visitors to jcp.org - those who aren't registered - from spamming us by writing
  to the Wiki. These changes are in the PMO's queue.) </p>
<p>Finally, we will request that the PMO set us up with a Bugzilla instance that
  we can use to formally log comments on our documents. </p>
<p>These transparency proposals (and indeed all decisions made at this WG meeting)
  should be approved by the full EC at its next meeting.</p>
<h3>JSR logistics</h3>
<p>Patrick explained that it would be logistically easier to  withdraw JSR 306
  (the last JCP process JSR) than to modify it, because of the changes in EC
  membership that have taken place since it was filed. He promised to &quot;recycle&quot;
  any useful material that was developed while that JSR was active. The plan
  is to file two new JSRs that will be worked on simultaneously. The first will
  focus on &quot;low-hanging fruit&quot; (changes that can be made relatively easily.)
  In practice this probably excludes anything that would require changing the
  JSPA. The second JSR will tackle more complex issues, including JSR changes. </p>
<p>In later discussion between Patrick and members of the PMO it was pointed
  out that because we encourage existing members to &quot;upgrade&quot; to a new version
  of the JSPA (we cannot force them to) it would be impractical to make two revisions
  in a short period of time. Therefore JCP.next will necessarily have to be restricted
  to Process Document changes while JCP.next++ will introduce JSPA changes as
  well as Process Document changes.</p>
<p>We decided  that Oracle needs to be represented on the Working
  Group  so that members of the PMO or the Chair are not put in the difficult
  position of speaking for Oracle's business interests. (We recognized that Oracle
  will have a significant say in the kind of changes we introduce.) Patrick promised
  to speak to Don Deutsch about this. </p>
<h3>Additional items for the todo list </h3>
<p>In addition to the items in the JCP.next presentation the following items
  have been suggested for inclusion on our todo list:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Anything from JSR 306 that still seems applicable and interesting. </li>
  <li>Require that when the license terms associated with a JSR are significantly
    changed from the previous release, this is explicitly called out. </li>
  <li>Address the <em> ballot-stuffing</em> issue that was discussed at the December
    EC meeting. </li>
  <li>Decide whether the changes introduced in JCP.next should be applied to
    other JSRs that are &quot;in flight.&quot; <br />
    <ul>
      <li>We probably can't require that an existing JSR be ruled by new version
        of the JSPA.</li>
      <li>We should require that the new version  of the Process Document applies
        to all existing JSRs when they have a &quot;state change&quot; (including a Maintenance
        Review.) <br />
      </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Minor clarifications of the Process Document.
    <ul>
      <li> Wayne Carr from Intel has documented a series of clarifications. Patrick
        promised to publish them for review.</li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Clarification of the JSPA as discussed within the EC.</li>
  <li>Clarify the requirement to disclose licenses, particularly if different
     licenses are available for various types of implementation or different
    fields of use.</li>
  <li> Clarify what we mean by <em>FRAN</em><em>D</em>.</li>
</ul>
<h3>JSR timeline</h3>
<p>We will aim to complete the first JSR by July 2011 and the second by early
  2012.</p>
<p><br />
</p>
</body></html>