<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JCP.next Working Group minutes: January 5, 2011</title>
<style type="text/css">
<!--
.style1 {color: #FF0000}
-->
</style>
</head><body>
<h1 align="center">Minutes of JCP.next Working Group Meeting <br>
5 January 2011</h1>

<h2>Location</h2>
<ul>
  <li>Teleconference</li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Meeting logistics
    <ul>
      <li>Choosing a weekly time-slot </li>
      <li>Legal representation</li>
      <li>Oracle representation </li>
      <li>March f2f meeting </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Review JSR 306 proposals </li>
  <li>Review Wayne Carr proposals </li>
  <li>Homework assignments 
    <ul>
      <li>More detailed review of JSR 306 and Wayne Carr proposals</li>
      <li>Drafting the JSR submissions</li>
      <li>Creating a definitive wish-list   </li>
    </ul>
  </li>
  <li>Plans for January face-to-face meeting </li>
</ul>
<h2>Attendance</h2>
<p>The following members attended this meeting of the WG. </p>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran<br />
  </li>
  <li>Heather VanCura</li>
  <li>John Rizzo</li>
  <li>Don Deutsch </li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe<br />
  </li>
  <li>Edin Bektesevic</li>
  <li>Scott Jameson </li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>James Warden</li>
  <li>Mark Little<br />
  </li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<h3>Weekly meetings </h3>
<p>We agreed to try for Wednesdays at 8:00 am as our weekly meeting time. Patrick
  will poll members to double-check.</p>
<h3>Legal representation </h3>
<p>We again discussed the issue of legal representation on the Working Group.
To recap, from the previous meeting's minutes:</p>
<blockquote>
  <p>Patrick noted that we will need legal advice for at least some of our work.
    He had asked Oracle's lawyer to join the group but was told that this wouldn't
    be possible until permission had been obtained from the lawyers of all other
    EC members. (This is an ethical issue - an Oracle attorney cannot represent
    or provide advice to others without the consent of their attorneys.) We discussed
    possible ways to work around this (perhaps hiring an independent counsel.)
    We agreed that in practice we will work the business issues and then everyone
    will pass this off for their own lawyers to review. </p>
</blockquote>
<p>We confirmed that JSPA changes will be posponed to the second JSR (to avoid
  having to ask members to &quot;upgrade&quot; twice) but nevertheless agreed that some
legal representation will be required. (Michael Gelblum will attend for Oracle.) </p>
<p>Since asking for multiple legal contacts will be awkward and potentially difficult
  logistically we wondered whether there might be an alternative (perhaps hiring
  independent counsel.) Don and Patrick agreed to discuss this further and to
report back at next week's EC meeting.</p>
<h3>Oracle representation</h3>
<p>Don Deutsch attended this meeting in response to the request at the previous
  meeting that Oracle be represented. He suggested that Eduardo Gutentag, who
  has great experience in standards organizations (at OASIS and W3C, for example)
  should join the Working Group. Scott welcomed the suggestion, but said that
  he would prefer that Eduardo be explicitly named as an alternate Oracle EC
  member. Don promised to look into this. Scott also said that he hoped Eduardo
  wouldn't replace Don on the WG, since we need Don's experience and history
with previous JCP revisions. Don agreed to attend when he could. </p>
<h3>March face-to-face meeting </h3>
<p>Patrick reported that the doodle poll showed two possibilities for a meeting
  in March:  Tuesday-Thursday March 8-10 or Tuesday-Thursday March 29-31. Neither
  was perfect since  Mark Little indicated he was unavailable one week and 
  Mike DeNicola is unavailable the other week. Patrick agreed to add Don Deutsch
  and Eduardo to the poll, and also to ask people to clarify where they would
  like to meet. (We should also decide whether we want to make this more than
a one-day meeting.)</p>
<h3>JSR 306 proposals</h3>
<p>We briefly reviewed the JSR 306 proposals, noting that the following items
  are already on our list: </p>
<ul>
  <li> further improve the transparency of the process</li>
  <li>further optimize the average duration of JSRs</li>
  <li> how can individuals best participate in the process</li>
  <li>ability to create liaison relationships with other standards organizations</li>
</ul>
<p>Patrick asked whether we needed to do further work on &quot;the
  availability of TCK and associated licensing information upon completion of
  a JSR,&quot; or whether we already had this covered now that licenses must be disclosed
  up-front. John Rizzo referenced Sean Sheedy's recent email about the &quot;Yes But&quot;
  votes on the Java SE JSRs, arguing that this was an indication that we still
  haven't settled the matter. Patrick responded that since full terms are disclosed
  and EC members are free to vote for or against a JSR further Process Document
  changes did not seem to be necessary. Don suggested that we need to gain more
  experience with the current requirements before making further changes. Note:
we did add the following item to our wishlist during the last meeting</p>
<ul>
  <li>Clarify
    the requirement to disclose licenses, particularly if different licenses
    are available for various types of implementation or different fields of
    use. </li>
</ul>
<p>Finally, we discussed the following two items from JSR 306:  </p>
<ul>
  <li> allowing non-Java implementations of a JSR's specification</li>
  <li>easing the migration of pre--existing technology towards an agreed upon
      standard</li>
</ul>
<p>Patrick asked for more background on these items. Members explained that BEA
  and IBM had been most interested in these matters, wanting to create Java implementations
  of specifications or technologies that had been implemented outside of the
  JCP. It was agreed that this was still relevant, and should be explored further. </p>
<p>Heather promised to look into providing access to the jsr-306 mailing list
  so that earlier work could be retrieved. (UPDATE: the EC meeting archives contain
  much useful backgroun on these matters, including drafts of the JSPA modified
to enable &quot;Hybrid&quot; and &quot;Transplant&quot; JSRs.)</p>
<h3>Next steps </h3>
<p>Patrick asked members to review the JSR 306 and Wayne Carr proposals before
  next week's meeting. The goal of that meeting should be to combine the jcp.next
  presentation, the JSR 306 and Wayne Carr proposals, and the suggestions made
  during the first Working Group meeting into a single &quot;wish-list.&quot; Items on
  this list would then be prioritized (allocated to either the first or the second
  JSR,) discussed among the group, and then allocated to a particular member
  to draft the necessary  Process Document
  or JSPA changes.</p>
<p>Patrick will draft text for the two JSRs (probably not before next week's
  meeting.)</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p>&nbsp;</p>
<p><br />
</p>
</body></html>