<!DOCTYPE HTML PUBLIC "-//W3C//DTD XHTML 1.0 Transitional//EN" "http://www.w3.org/TR/xhtml1/DTD/xhtml1-transitional.dtd">
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml"><head>

<meta http-equiv="Content-Type" content="text/html; charset=ISO-8859-1">

<title>JCP.next Working Group minutes - May 18</title>
</head><body>
<h1 align="center">Minutes of JCP.next Working Group Meeting <br>
18 May 2011</h1>

<h2><strong>Agenda</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>
  Review JSR1 submission </li>
  <li>The Expert Group's working style</li>
  <li>Next steps</li>
</ul>
<h2><strong>Attendees</strong></h2>
<ul>
  <li>Patrick Curran </li>
  <li>Scott Jameson</li>
  <li>Alex Terazzas</li>
  <li>Heather Vancura</li>
  <li>Mike DeNicola</li>
  <li>Scott Stark</li>
  <li>Steve Wolfe</li>
  <li>Stefano Andreano</li>
  <li>Werner Keil</li>
  <li>Bruno Souza </li>
</ul>
<h2>Minutes</h2>
<p><em><strong>JSR submission  </strong></em></p>
<p>We briefly reviewed the JSR1 submission for the benefit of new members. </p>
<p><em><strong>The Expert Group's working style</strong></em></p>
<p>We agreed that we would need to form a Working Group. It was suggested that
  this be chaired by Mike DeNicola. We agreed that it would be advantageous if
  a core group of members attended most Working Group meetings, but recognized
  that intevitably (and desirably) there would be other EC members who would
  attend occasionally.  </p>
<p>We decided that we would rather operate by consensus (defined as general,
  but not necessarily unanimous, agreement) than by voting. We recognized that
some items would be controversial, and that we may not be able to achieve unamimity. </p>
<p>We will report back regularly to the full Expert Group (all EC members) and
  will expect them to follow - and ultimately to approve - our work. </p>

    <p>We decided to create a single read/write alias on java.net to allow public
      visibility into, and participation in, our work. People will
      need to apply for membership of this alias, so that we can guard against
    spam and abuse.
      </blockquote>
      </ul>
      </li>
      </ul>
</p>
    <p><em><strong>Next steps</strong></em></p>
    <p>	We agreed to meet weekly. We set a goal of finalizing our working style
      and process proposals for presentation and approval at the June 7 EC meeting.
      We agreed that additional meetings of the full Expert Group will be needed
      if we are to complete our work in time. (In other words, the scheduled
      EC meetings will not be sufficient.) We also agreed that additional f2f
      meetings of the Working Group will be needed. Patrick will create a Doodle
      poll to work out where and when.</p>
    <p><em><strong>Next meeting </strong></em></p>
    <p>Wednesday May 25, 8:00 am Pacific time.</p>
    <p>&nbsp; </p>
    <p><br />
</p>
    </body></html>