# Minutes of JCP.next Working Group Meeting  
2 February 2011

## Location

*   Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Review Master List of proposed changes

*   Sort, prioritize, assign owners

*   March f2f meeting

## Attendance

The following members attended this meeting of the WG.

*   Patrick Curran
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Michael Bechauf
*   Chris Wood
*   Scott Stark
*   Don Deutsch
*   John Rizzo
*   Heather VanCura
*   Werner Keil  

## Minutes

We reviewed the Master List of proposed changes, attempting to specify for each item:

*   Priority
*   Targeted for JSR1 or JSR2?
*   Process Doc or JSPA change?
*   Do we have consensus?
*   Do we already have text?
*   Volunteer to flesh out the idea?

We didn't complete our review, but intend to do so at the next meeting. The Master List was updated with annotations where appropriate.

We briefly discussed the logistics for the March f2f meeting. We seem to have consensus on the timing (the last week in March) but need to narrow this down further.