# Minutes of JCP.next Working Group Meeting  
23 February 2011

## Location

*   Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Review Master List of proposed changes

*   Sort, prioritize, assign owners

*   March f2f meeting

## Attendance

The following members attended this meeting of the WG.

*   Patrick Curran
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Patrick
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Scott Stark
*   Scott Jameson
*   John Rizzo
*   Michael Bechauf
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Werner Keil
*   Heather Vancura
*   Chris Wood
*   Mike DeNicola  

## Minutes

We completed our review of the Master List of proposed changes, focusing mainly on the _Hybrid_ and _Transplant_ JSR proposals. We decided that both should be kept on the list.

We also discussed the language in the JSPA concerning when members can (and whether they should be obliged to) "upgrade" to the latest version. We decided that the ideal would be to give people a lengthy period (2 years?) to upgrade, but to require that they do. At a minimum, upgrading would be required of Spec Leads and of anyone who participates in an Expert Group.

Patrick promised to fix the location of the March f2f meeting (Redwood Shores or Santa Clara.)