# JSR 348 Working Group Meeting minutes  
29 July 2011

## Meeting details

*   Teleconference, Friday July 29, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am PDT  

## **Agenda**

*   Review minutes from last meeting.
*   Review of open issues.
*   Review of suggested changes to _Standing Rules_.
*   Schedule, milestones, and next steps.

## **Materials**

*   [Process Document](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/JCP%20NEXT%202.8-29JUL2011-Clean.pdf)
*   [EC Standing Rules](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/JCP2%20EC%20Standing%20Rules%20-29JUL2011-Clean.pdf)
*   [Issue tracker](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348)
*   [Observers alias](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/lists/observers/archive)

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Scott Jameson
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Ben Evans
*   Scott Stark
*   Werner Keil
*   John Weir
*   Bruno Souza

## Minutes

_**Review minutes from last meeting**_

*   Last week's minutes were approved.

_**Process discussion on Issue Tracking**_

*   All open issues will be formally logged in the Issue Tracker. (If comments are submitted to the alias the owner will be asked to submit an issue.)
*   Distinction between _Resolved_ and _Closed_: we will mark issues as _Resolved_ when we agree to make a fix (or to reject them) and _Closed_ when we've actually implemented or rejected.
*   Process for resolving issues: the owner comments the issue with proposed change, and either assigns to Eduardo for implementation or emails Patrick and asks him to do so.
*   We will review newly-resolved issues at each WG meeting so that all can agree on the resolution.
*   Items that will be postponed to JSR2 will be copied to the JSR2 list if necessary and then closed.
    *   We won't yet open a new JIRA instance for JSR2 since this would require creating a new project.

_**Review of open issues**_

*   We reviewed all open issues, commenting, assigning, and marking as _Resolved_ as necessary.
*   Only one substantive issue requires further discussion - **[JSR348-4](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-4)**. Patrick will open this up for discussion on the alias.

_**Review of suggested changes to Standing Rules**_

*   We reviewed two messages (from Roger Riggs and Sean Sheedy) that included comments on the Standing Rules
*   Roger's message: Eduardo has already opened issues for most of the points Roger raised.
    *   Roger also said "The phrase _sustained objection_ is used in a few places. Does it mean _prolonged_ or _persistent_ or is there a motion and a vote? For example, lines (91, 97)
    *   Eduardo proposes replacing "consensus" with the term "rough consensus" which is defined in an RFC, and then use this term throughout.
    *   Eduardo to open an issue and assign to himself.
*   Sean's message expressed concerns about this language: "All decisions, reached either through consensus or through a vote, are to be understood as decisions to advise the PMO."
    *   We need to clarify when decisions are binding and when not. A new issue [(JSR348-27)](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-27) was opened to track this.

_**Discussion on redline versions of the documents**_

*   Eduardo reported that the cumulative redline version of the document was becoming unreadable due to the volume of changes, and that he had therefore accepted all previous changes, redlining only those changes since the Early Draft review version of the document.
*   We agreed that this is what we would submit to the EC for approval.
*   We also agreed to produce a "historical redline" showing changes since 2.7\.

_**Schedule, milestones, and next steps**_

*   We have only two more meetings (the second is a full EC/EG meeting) before Public Review.
*   We agreed to postpone next week's meeting from Wednesday to Friday (August 5) to give us time to complete all proposed changes before the full EC/EG meeting on August 10.
*   The Public Review will begin at midnight on August 12.