# Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group Meeting  
22 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday June 22, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

*   Teleconference

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   John Rizzo
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Werner Keil

## **Agenda**

*   Review [minutes](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-15-Minutes.md) from last week's meeting.
*   Status of alias problem.
*   Report from Eduardo on state of updated docs.
*   Review suggested changes submitted to date, identifying and focusing on those that do not have consensus.
    *   If possible use updated docs from Eduardo.
*   See updated [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June21.md) for items still open.
    *   NOTE: this will be changing up until the time of the meeting.
*   Review scheduleand milestones.
*   Next steps.

## **Minutes**

### Review minutes from last week's meeting

Last week's [minutes](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-15-Minutes.md) were approved.

### Status of the alias problem

Patrick reported (as he had via email) that we have a workaround for the java.net bug. (Members should use the jsr348-experts@jcp.org alias instead of experts@jsr348.java.net.) He reminded people to check the "to" address when replying to older messages, and to change it if necessary. He also reminded members that those who aren't subscribed to the Observers alias will receive a notice saying that their message has been forwarded for moderation (for _Observers_) whenever they post to _Experts_. These messages can be ignored (Patrick will approve the posting.)

The underlying java.net bug is expected to be fixed in the next few weeks. Patrick will report when it is safe to return to using the original alias.

### Report from Eduardo on state of updated docs

Eduardo reported that the latest documents incorporate almost all changes where we had reasonable consensus. He noted that where he had presented alternatives there had been no feedback. (These were addressed and resolved at this meeting - see below.) He did not incorporate unresolved issues (eg Scott's suggested change for Maintenance Release process.) Still todo: the escalation and appeals process.

John asked whether we planned to submit the alternatives to the larger EG and ask them to choose.

Patrick and Mike suggested that the Working Group should try to reach consensus and make specific recommendations to the full EG if at all possible.

### When to use the issue tracker?

Patrick suggested that it was probably getting very difficult for Eduardo to track all the suggested changes on the alias, and wondered when we should start using the issue-tracker. Eduardo agreed that it was getting difficult. Patrick suggested switching to the issue-tracker after EDR. He promised to help Eduardo to track status by maintaining the JSR1 list and its embedded statuses and action items.

### Review suggested changes submitted to date, identifying and focusing on those that do not have consensus

Patrick explained that he had color-coded the [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June21.md), indicating which items still needed work (in yellow) and where we still didn't have consensus (in red.) We agreed to focus in this meeting on the _**red**_ items.

_**Requirement to offer TCK licenses "for ever"**_

John raised a concern about the difficulty of maintaining TCK licenses when the Spec Lead takes over RI & TCK from another. Patrick responded that this seemed something of a corner-case, but asked John to send a note to the alias so we have this on record. John responded that this is fairly common in the ME space. He agreed to send a message to the alias.

**_Uncooperative/unresponsive EG member/Spec Lead_**

Eduardo will add **_disruptive_** to the label for the EG-member problem.

We discussed the two alternatives offered for each of these cases: a 2/3 majority vote of EC members or "three members may petition the EC." We agreed that we prefer the latter approach, and noted that we need to factor in an appeals process in the case where an EG member is removed from the group. (If the EC decides to remove a Spec Lead there will beno appeal.)

_**Escalation and appeals process**_

Patrick asked whether we should define a general process that can be used under any circumstances or whether we should limit its use to particular cases. Eduardo inclines towards the general approach. He agreed to draft some text permitting Members (EG Members?) to appeal any decision by a Spec Lead, Maintenance Lead, or the PMO. We discussed whether a member should be able to appeal individually, or whether we should require three.

We noted that when the offended party is a corporation it might be difficult for business reasons (and therefore unreasonble) to obtain the support of others. (For example, one company should be able to appeal against an unresponsive Maintenance Lead who doesn't respond to requests to license the TCK.) We could not decide whether an individual EG member who felt discriminated against would be required to enlist the support of two other members in order to appeal.

Eduardo agreed to draft some language for further review.

**_Terms of Use for Collaboration software_**

Patrick reported that he had a brief (impromptu) discussion on this issue internally, and that the conclusion was that it would not be appropriate for a legal team to "approve" the Terms of Use for any collaboration software that they had no control over (this could be a legal liablility.) Even if we were to try to do so, Terms of Use can change at any time, making it effectively impossible. Instead, we'll probably need to take a "Caveat Emptor" approach, reminding Spec Leads that they have legal obligations under the JSPA that could be compromised if they accept contributions from people who have not signed the JSPA or some other Contributor Agreement. Each Spec Lead already must manage this risk, and should continue to do so.

Patrick explained the direction (write up later.)

John suggested that if this is the direction we propose to take then the Spec Lead should assert in the JSR submission that they understand the risks and accept responsibility.

Patrick agreed to draft something very high level for EDR, recognizing that it would need to be refined later after discussion with Legal.

**_Clarification of the Maintenance process_**

Since Scott is out for the next week Patrick agreed to follow up his recent alias message with a specific suggestion for changes.

_**Naming the JSR stages**_

Eduardo agreed to respond to Don's recent message with some specific suggestions.

_**Facilitiating the EC merge**_

We discussed Patrick's recent message to the alias - specifically noting that we don't need to make all necessary changes to the Process Document now since we can do a JSR next year just to handle an EC merge. Eduardo agreed to clean the documents up, and to insert some language warning EC members elected after this version of the Process goes into effect that the terms of their membership are subject to change in the near future.

_**Confusion over the terms member (corporate, organizational, or individual) and "representative of member"**_

Patrick noted that there is confusion over the term Member (whether corporate, organizational, or individual) and over the role of those who are "employed by or associated with" corporate or institutional members. This requires convoluted language in various parts of the document. If we had formal definitions for each of these terms it might help. Possible terms are:

*   Member (already defined as "A company, organization, or individual that has signed the JSPA and is abiding by its terms")
*   Individual (not needed?)
*   Associate Member (someone employed by a corporate Member or associated with an organizational Member and authorized to represent them?)

We agreed to further discussion on the alias, recognizing that we might not complete this by EDR.

### Milestones and next steps

_**From the June 8 minutes**_

*   June 15 First cut/feedback on each section from assignees
*   June 22 Refine/complete (Eduardo will have integrated suggestions)
*   June 29 Earl draft ready for review
*   July 6 Finish/polish EDR for submission to full EG at July 12 meeting
*   July 12 EC meeting

Note: Scott will miss the June 15 and June 22 meetings, Eduardo will miss June 29, and possibly July 6, and Patrick will miss July 6.

Patrick will take over Eduardo's editing duties at the end of this week. We will aim to finish up major tasks at next week's meeting.

Mike will email all EG members asking them to review the current documents, to raise any concerns now, and to attend next week's meeting if they have concerns. We don't want major "surprises" at the July 12 EC meeting.