# Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group meeting  
25 August 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday August 25 , 2011, 9:00 - 10:00 am Pacific time
*   Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Review minutes from last meeting
*   Resolve Maintenance Process (see mail thread on Experts alias)
*   Review definition of Member (see mail thread on Experts alias)
*   Review other open issues – if time permits
    *   [Open Issues list](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Meeting%20Materials/OpenIssues-2011-08-24.md)
*   Confirm and plan for WG meeting next week

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Martijn Verburg
*   John Rizzo
*   Scott Jameson
*   Mark Rogalski
*   Scott Stark
*   Bruno Souza
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   John Weir
*   Heather Vancura
*   Werner Keil

## Minutes

_**Review minutes from last meeting**_

There were no comments on the minutes. We agreed that in future no formal approval would be needed.since the minutes are published immediately after the meeting. Any comments should be submitted by email, and will be incorporated as necessary.

_**Resolve Maintenance Process (see mail thread on Experts alias)**_

We spent almost the entire meeting on this topic. We eventually agreed that the approach laid out by Patrick in the message to the Experts alias seemed reasonable. Patrick agreed to rewrite his document for further discussion. He also agreed to clean up the open issues on this and the _Definition of Member_ topic so that further discussion can take place through comments in the issue-tracker rather than on the mailing-list.

UPDATE: I've done the cleanup. Discussion on the _Definition of Member_ topic should continue in [JSR348-86: Improve clarity of Member definition](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-86). Discussion of the _Maintenance Release_ process should continue in [JSR 348-70: Simplify Maintenance Review process by eliminating Item Exception Ballot and Change Log.](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-70)

_**Review definition of Member (see mail thread on Experts alias)**_

We did not have time to discuss this topic. Patrick asked members to review and comment the issue(s) in the issue-tracker.

_**Review other open issues – if time permits**_

We didn't get to this item. Patrick asked members to review and comment the issues in the issue-tracker.

_**Confirm and plan for WG meeting next week**_

We agreed to meet as usual next Wednesday at 8:00 am

**_Other business_**

Patrick reported that there has been little external feedback since we went to Public Review. He reminded members to conduct internal reviews within their own companies/organizations soon, and to provide feedback in time for it to be evaluated and incorporated into our Proposed Final Draft.