# Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group  
29 September 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Thursday September 29 , 2011, 8:00 am PDT

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Susanne Cech Previtali
*   Scott Stark
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Ben Evans
*   Roger Riggs
*   Scott Jameson
*   Don Deutsch

## **Agenda**

*   Review remaining open issues (see all issues tagged "Need_comments")
    *   ["license review" process loopholes effectively grant veto power](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-144)
        *   Should we defer documenting the legal review of licenses?
    *   [rules around missing F2F meetings](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-126)
        *   Should we have extra penalties for missing f2f meetings?
    *   [Should the JSR Review period always be four weeks, or 2-4 weeks at the option of the submitter?](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-120)
        *   We need to decide the length of the initial JSR review (plus, does it happen in parallel with, or before, the actual vote?)
    *   [Member vs. Member Representative confusion](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-115)
        *   Further suggestions to clean up this language.
    *   [Give PMO ability to investigate and act on voting fraud with certain conditions](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-147)
        *   Review new language in the Proposed Final Draft
*   Finalize changes for Final Draft
    *   Must be submitted to the PMO on Saturday October 1

## Documents

*   Review the _Proposed Final Draft_ documents linked from the [Working Documents](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/pages/WorkingDocuments) page.
    *   The _current_ documents are the same (plus they include redline versions)

## Minutes

We reviewed all open issues, and updated them in the Issue Tracker.

Eduardo and Patrick will finalize the changes by Saturday, and then submit the resulting document to the PMO as the Final Draft. We will need approval from the EG to do so. Patrick will seek this.