# JSR 348 Working Group Meeting Minutes  
20 July 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday July 20, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

*   Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Early Draft Review status.
*   Review of open issues.
*   Review of Standing Rules document.
*   Next steps.

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Martijn Verburg
*   Scott Stark
*   Werner Keil
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Alex Terrazzo
*   John Weir
*   Bruno Souza
*   Steve Wolfe

## Minutes

_**Early Draft Review status**_

*   We are in EDR (until 12th August)
*   We have 11 non-Oracle, non-EC subscribers to the Observers alias
*   No substantive comments via the Observers alias
*   No postings on the discussion forum
*   One member has submitted several comments/suggestions on the issue-tracker.
    *   Need someone to evaluate and respond
*   Not a lot of feedback - all should encourage
*   Patrick to email Java Champions and JUG Leaders aliases
*   Promote at OSCON

_**Review of open issues**_

*   Some of the open issues will be reviewed by those of us who will be at OSCON next week. Patrick will initiate discussion on the Experts alias for others.
*   Patrick will comment some issues, close some issues.
*   Specific comments and assignments are listed below.
*   The Transfer Ballot process is under-specified - Eduardo will draft additional language
*   Should JSR Renewal ballots be unconditionally initiated when a JSR misses its deadline? - Patrick
    *   PMO to report at EC meetings on JSRs that are approaching the deadline. This will initiate discussion prior to any ballot.
    *   Always do a ballot when the deadline is reached. Members will be encouraged to comment their ballot responses if they vote not to terminate a JSR.
*   Should Maintenance Leads be obliged to provide the final materials within a specified time-period after Maintenance Review?
    *   Patrick to re-initiate discussion
*   Clean up wording on changes to licensing terms - Patrick
*   Specify issue-tracking requirements in more detail
    *   More discussion needed.
    *   How do we know that all issues have been addressed? What must the EG do? Must they publish something? Who polices this? Beware imposing too much process on Spec Leads.
*   The prohibition on employees of JCP Members voting or running for election as individuals doesn't go far enough - Patrick
*   It should be mandatory to provide maintenance releases of corresponding affected specifications.
    *   We can't mandate maintenance releases, but section _1.0.1 Revise Existing Specifications_ of the Process Doc already addresses this.
*   Apache licence should be required or promoted for Specification RI and TCK - on the list for JSR2
*   Publish list of accepted TCK licences - on the list for JSR2
*   EG/TCK Members/Observers mailing list must be consolidated
    *   We require that _All substantive business must be carried out on a public alias._ W e don't specify exactly how to do this, nor should we, so this particular issue may not even apply.
    *   Martijn wants further discussion.
*   Remove TCK non-compete clauses/language
    *   More complex than can be done in JSR1 - should be discussed for JSR2
*   TCK should be freely available for users to run and verify their implementation of choice
    *   More complex than can be done in JSR1 - should be discussed for JSR2
*   Reverse language referring to discussion of individual TCK test results with general public
    *   Already done. Submitter is working from outdated documents (not from the actual EDR draft of the Process Document)
*   Allow legal council from all JCP members to contribute to review of artifacts (docs, licences, terms of use, etc.)
    *   Presumably "all JCP members" should be replaced by "all EC members." This already happens.
    *   As for the comment that we should form a "board" of legal counsel from all members, that is impractical, and would slow everything down to a crawl.
*   Add GitHub to the list of approved collaboration software
    *   There will be no list of "approved collaboration software" (submitter is working from an outdated draft)
*   Make annual JCP event meeting at JavaOne truly open (no fees)
    *   Looking into this.
*   Signing the JSPA should done electronically - Patrick has already addressed this
*   Expert groups must not be dispanded after final release - we have already considered this, but didn't yet open an issue
    *   Much more discussion needed - it's complicated, and involves IP grants
*   Concept of maintenance release should be replaced with semi-annual release
    *   We can't mandate how Spec Leads do their work, nor can we force them to do a maintentance release (see issue JSR348-10)
    *   These suggestions should be addressed to the EE Spec Lead.
*   Sean's comment on _How many consecutive meetings must an EC member miss before losing their seat?_
    *   We agreed to drop the number of consecutive meetings from six to five, and to add language stating that missing 2/3 of the meetings in any (rolling) 12-month period would also result in loss of seat.

_**Review of Standing Rules document**_

*   Mike to remind people to review and comment.
*   In particular, it would be useful to have further discussion about the **_for discussion or for decisio_**_**n**_ language. How strict should we be?

**_Next steps_**

*   We have three weeks to complete our Public Review Draft (for approval at the August 10 EC meeting)
*   Need to be finished (address all comments in two weeks)
*   Neither Patrick nor Mike is available next Wednesday. Patrick will run a Doodle poll to figure out whether to reschedule for Tuesday, Thursday, or Friday.