# Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group meeting  
31 August 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday August 31, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time
*   Teleconference

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Martijn Verburg
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Scott Stark
*   Scott Jameson
*   Bruno Souza
*   Heather Vancura
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Victor Grazi
*   John Rizzo

## **Agenda**

*   Review [Maintenance Release proposal](/files/Working%20documents/Maintenance-AUG-29-2011.md)
*   Review definition of Member (see [Notes on categories of Membership](/files/Working%20documents/Membership-AUG-31-2011.md))
*   Review other open issues â€“ if time permits
    *   [Open Issues list](/files/Meeting%20Materials/OpenIssues-2011-08-31.md)
*   Review schedule and next steps

## Minutes

WG members discussed the _Maintenance Release_ proposal and approved it with minor changes. Patrick will now propose specific language changes to implement this proposal.

We then discussed the _categories of Membership_ proposal, focusing primarily on the issue of _Member Associates_ (people who are associated with an organization such as Apache or a JUG, but who are not employees, contractors, or officers of that organization.) Can such people be authorized by the organization to offically represent it (thereby having an _Agent_ relationship?) What if the organization is not even a legal entity? If they did become Agents, presumably they would be subject to the same restrictions as other Agents (no separate vote, cannot run for election as an individual.) Could they join an EG under the terms of the organization's JSPA? (Maybe if they formally agree to be bound by it?) We did agree that members of EGs must be bound by **some** JSPA.

Patrick agreed to take legal advice on these questions. Assuming answers to these questions, we believe that we're close to resolving this matter.

Martijn reported that the LJC has held a meeting to seek feedback from its members. Apart from the JUG-member questions discussed above no major issues are expected to be submitted. However, he did point out that many developers don't understand the Process Document (it's too complicated and legalistic for them.) They would like a (non-normative) developer-friendly version of it. Patrick noted that we already have a non-normative Spec Lead Guide, and that perhaps the LJC could help by submitting material for this, and for a new Participants Guide which would be addressed to people who want to participate but do not intend to lead a JSR.

We did not have time to review any other issues. As always, this is a request to review and comment on them before the next meeting.

We discussed our schedule - **neglecting to note that the formal Public Review Ballot starts next Tuesday, September 6!** Patrick will send a reminder to the ECs.

We agreed to postpone next week's meeting until Thursday or Friday, and to try for 90 minutes or two hours, to make allowance for the holiday weekend, and to give Patrick and Eduardo more time to incorporate changes into the document. Patrick will put up a Doodle poll to chose the date and time. At next week's meeting we will focus on our remaining issues, and on preparation for the following week's f2f meeting in New Jersey.