# Minutes of JSR 348 Expert Group Meeting  
1 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday June 1, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

## **Agenda**

*   Ballot results
*   Review [minutes](/files/Meeting%20materials%20-%20pre%20Expert%20Group/2011-05-25-Minutes.md) from last week's meeting
*   Plan for submission of proposal for Expert Group's working style to full EG at June 7 EC meeting
*   Next steps

## **Attendees**

*   Patrick Curran
*   Mark Rogalski
*   Radomir Vencek
*   Alex Terazzas
*   Chris Wood
*   Calinel Pasteanu
*   Christoph Kuhmuench
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Werner Keil
*   Ben Evans
*   Heather Vancura
*   Scott Jameson
*   Sean Sheedy
*   Steve Wolfe
*   John Rizzo
*   Bruno Souza

## Minutes

_**Ballot Results**_

*   SE/EE EC: 15 yes, 1 did not vote (Google)
*   ME EC: 11 yes, 5 did not vote (AT&T, Stefano Andreani, SK Telecom, Samsung, Vodafone)
*   See [http://jcp.org/en/jsr/results?id=5209](http://jcp.org/en/jsr/results?id=5209)

_**Review minutes from last meeting**_

Mike DeNicola confirmed that he will chair the Working Group. Meetings that are labeled (in advance) as Expert Group rather thanWG meetings will be chaired by Patrick.

We agreed that we'll probably need some additional f2f meetings of the WG. Patrick to poll for suitable dates.

Patrick to poll re moving back the date of the August EC meeting to allow time for public review .

_**Plans for EC meeting on June 7**_

Tighten up last week's minutes into a formal presentation/document for review and approval at June 7 EC meeting.

Review the JSR1 list for new members' benefits.

_**Next steps**_

Will Eduardo be the official maintainer/editor of our two documents?

How to proceed with editing the docs? Use the JSR1 list as a starting point. Assign people to draft language where necessary. Discuss and review proposed changes on the alias. Pass to the editor for inclusion. Review.

Rinse, repeat....

NOTE: we agree that will do work in between meetings, on the alias...

We agreed to meet at our usual time next Wednesday after the EC meeting on Tuesday. We will need Eduardo.