# JSR 348 Working Group Meeting minutes  
5 August 2011

## Meeting details

*   Teleconference, Friday August 5, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am PDT  

## **Agenda**

*   Review minutes from last meeting.
*   Review of open issues.
*   Preparation for full EC/EG meeting next week

## **Materials**

*   [Process Document](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/JCP%20NEXT%202.8-29JUL2011-Clean.pdf)
*   [EC Standing Rules](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/downloads/download/Working%20documents/JCP2%20EC%20Standing%20Rules%20-29JUL2011-Clean.pdf)
*   [Issue tracker](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348)
*   [Observers alias](http://java.net/projects/jsr348/lists/observers/archive)

## Attendance

*   Patrick Curran
*   Scott Jameson
*   Don Deutsch
*   Martijn Verburg
*   Scott Stark
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Mike DeNicolo
*   Victor Grazi
*   Werner Keil
*   John Rizzo
*   Bruno Souza

## Minutes

_**Review minutes from last meeting**_

The minutes were approved.

_**Review of open issues**_

Patrick/Eduardo reported that the issue tracker is working well. We agreed to continue to use it in preference to general email discussion for logging and discussing issues.

We reviewed the majority of the open issues, noting several for closure and others for additional action. (The results of our discussions were captured in the issues' comments rather than in these minutes.)

Patrick and Eduardo will work to clean up the open issues over the next few days. In the meantime, members are encouraged to review and comment on open issues.

_**Preparation for full EC/EG meeting next week**_

We agreed to publish another draft on Monday. This is what we will review during next Wednesday's EC/EG meeting, and which (hopefully) we will submit as the official Public Review draft. Public Review is scheduled to begin at midnight on August 12/13\.

Mike will encourage EG members to review the current drafts, and to familiarize themselves with the Public Review drafts that will be published on Monday, so that they are prepared for Wednesday's meeting.