# Minutes of JSR 348 Expert Group Meeting  
7 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   This meeting was held as part of the June 7 Executive Committee meeting  

## **Agenda**

*   ([Presentation](/files/Meeting%20Materials/JSR348-update-060711.pdf))
*   The JSR approval ballot
*   Working style
*   Transparency plan
*   Schedule

## **Attendees**

*   See EC meeting minutes (link to be supplied)

## Minutes

### Inactive JSRs

In the context of a discussion on Inactive JSRs during the EC meeting Patrick Curran pointed out that this topic would be addressed in JCP.next. He reminded members that we propose to institute a series of _time-outs_ so that JSRs that did not reach Early Draft Review within one year, Public Review within two years, or complete within three years would be subject to a _JSR Reconsideration Ballot_ and potentially shut down. John Rizzo and Bruno Souza suggested that three years is too long, and that the required milestones be tighter. Ben Evans pointed out that whether or not a JSR was really inactive depends on the amount of engineering and development work that is actually taking place. He suggested that some JSRs (for example, JSR 292) that appear to be inactive might actually be working hard. Patrick responded that the solution to this problem is to issu an Early Draft Review. He pointed out that it's OK for an EG to issue multiple EDRs. Members responded that this isn't necessarily widely known, and suggested that this should be publicized. (This has been added to the [AI list](/files/Working%20documents/AIs.md).)

John Rizzo argued that there should be a limit on the number of EDRs. Patrick responded that the requirement that a JSR reach the next stage (Public Review) within a specified period would ensure this.

Patrick reminded members that the requirements of the new Process Document would not apply to existing JSRs, implying that the existing cleanup process would need to be continued for quite some time.

### **JSR approval ballot**

Patrick reported the results of the JSR approval ballot. See the [presentation](/files/Meeting%20Materials/JSR348-update-060711.pdf) for details.

### **Working style**

Patrick presented the Working Style proposals from the Working Group. John Rizzo suggested that since EC members are automatically members of the Expert Group, we should require them to acknowledge that they have read the minutes of the WG and have followed the discussion, so as to guard against the possibility of "surprises" when the JSR came to a formal vote. Scott Jameson and others expressed concern at this suggestion, pointing out that every member company has its own way of seeking internal feedback and approval, and that the Working Group could not second-guess or try to define how this process would work. After a lively discussion we agreed to move on, expressing the hope that all Expert Group members would follow the activities of the Working Group, and would raise any concerns early, so that there would be no surprises during formal votes.

Edin Bestevic asked whether Oracle would be exempt from the suggestion that members "disagree and commit" where they have problems with a particular proposal. Patrick responded that as with all JSRs, the Spec Lead could not be forced to implement something that they believe runs contrary to their business interests. Either a consensus is reached, or the Working Group disbands and the JSR fails to progress (as with the previous attempt to modify the JSPA and Process Document - JSR 306.)

The Expert Group then approved the Working Style as documented in the [presentation](/files/Meeting%20Materials/JSR348-update-060711.pdf).

### **Transparency plan**

Patrick presented the Working Group's propsed Transparency Plan, as implemented in the [java.net project](https:/github.com/jcp-org/jsr348). Expert Group members approved the Transparency Plan as documented in the [presentation](/files/Meeting%20Materials/JSR348-update-060711.pdf).

### **Schedule**

Patrick reviewed the schedule, pointing out the goal of completing before the October election. He noted that the schedule is very tight, and pointed out the need to modify the date of the August EC teleconference to align with the proposed schedule of reviews and ballots. Bruno Souza argued that if we miss the October deadline this wouldn't be a great problem.