# Minutes of JSR 348 Working Group Meeting  
15 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday June 15, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

*   Teleconference

## Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   Roger Mahler
*   Bruno Souza
*   Steve Wolfe
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Scott Stark
*   Mike DeNicola
*   John Rizzo
*   Martijn Verburg
*   Alex Terrazas
*   Werner Keil
*   Heather Vancura

## **Agenda**

*   Review [minutes](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-08-Minutes.md) from last week's meeting.
*   Review [Action Items](/files/Working%20documents/AIs.md).
*   Status of alias problem.
*   Review suggested changes submitted to date.
    *   See updated [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June14.md).
*   Review schedule and milestones .

## Minutes

### Review minutes from last week's meeting

Last week's minutes were approved

### Review suggested changes submitted to date

We reviewed each of the items listed from JSR1 list, focusing on those where we do not seem to have a consensus. For a full list of resulting AIs see the version of the [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June15.md) that was updated after the meeting.

_**1.1 Expert Group transparency**_

Alex to submit a proposal for 1.1.1 and then to incorporate 1.1.1, 1.1.2 and 1.1.3 into a General Procedures section labeled _Expert Group transparency_

_**1.3 License transparency**_

We discussed - and did not reach agreement - whether all items in this section should be placed in the new General Procedures section or whether they should be noted "in place" (in one of the subsequent "JSR phase" sections.) We considered putting the primary text in one place and referencing from other(s.) For example, on the requirement to disclose license changes we could either put a brief reference (in the General Procedures section and then put details in the Maintenance and JSR Submission section (pointing to them from the General section) or put the details in the General section, and then reference from the other sections. Alex agreed to draft something for further discussion.

We discussed the concerns John Rizzo raised on the alias - "any party that wishes to accept the [TCK license] terms as offered must be able to do so stand alone and without the burden of licenses outside of the targeted TCK." Patrick agreed to forward on to the alias a previous discussion he and John had on this topic.

_**1.4 TCK transparency**_

Patrick agreed to incorporate into 1.4.1 Bill Shannon's suggestion that if a list of compatible implementations is published elsewhere (for example, the Java EE team maintains such a list) then the PMO's list may simply reference it. **DONE**.

Patrick also agreed to incorporate a suggested change from John Rizzo, clarifying that only implementations that _have been released publicly or commercially_ need be disclosed. **DONE**

We discussed John Rizzo's concern about the possibility of confidentiality clauses being inserted into "personalized" TCK licenses. Patrick reiterated the response he made to the alias: that Process Document requirements must be met by all Spec Leads and all licenses.

_**2\. Participation**_

It was pointed out that in the case of an unreactive or unresponsive spec lead it might not be possible to get 2/3 of EG members to vote. (John Rizzo noted that some of the MSA JSRs had more than 50 members, but the great majority of these were simply passive observers.) We therefore considered the possibility of requiring only 2/3 of those who vote, possibly together with a required minimum number of votes. Alternatively, we could simply state that if a certain number of members complained to the PMO the EC would investigate and potentially take action.

Eduardo agreed to draft two alternatives for 2.2.2 and 2.2.3 that could be further discussed by email.

We agreed to strike 2.3.2 (penalties for not voting) since we can't devise any way to implement this in practice.

We further agreed that the question of mandatory attendance at f2f meetings and whether or not we should provide teleconference facilities needs broader discussion.

_**3.2 and 3.3 Clarify/Clean up the Maintenance process**_

We didn't spend much time discussing this, but Patrick believes it's complex enough that we should spend more time on it.

_**3.4 Clarify requirements for RI and TCK to be posted within x weeks of Final Release**_

Bill Shannon has made comments on this proposal. Patrick will forward them on to the Experts alias.

_**4\. Facilitating the EC merge**_

Mike DeNicola suggests moving the entire section on 5 (EC policies and procedures) out of Process Doc into Standing Rules. Eduardo and Patrick expressed concern that this was too radical a change. We agreed that further discussion was necessary. Mike agreed to take another look at his proposal.

### Next steps

The goal for next week will be to incorporate the non-controversial existing suggestions into the two documents so that we can focus our discussions on the few (3 or 4?) items where we don't yet have consensus.

Patrick has updated the [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June15.md), annotating with the status of each task, and embedding a TODO list.

### Report on the aliases

[Not reported in detail during the meeting due to lack of time.]

The experts and observers aliases, as originally set up (whereby observers was subscribed to experts) do not work as expected:

1) Messages sent to experts and relayed to observers are not archived in observers - only in experts. This is supposedly a "feature" but seems very like a bug to me :)

2) Anyone who is not subscribed to observers (as most EC/EG members are not) will receive a "message denied" response from observers when messages that are posted to experts are relayed to observers. This is by design - only subscribers can post to the observer alis.

As a workaround for problem #1, either posters to experts will need to explicitly copy observers, or we'll need to create a front-end alias (on jcp.org?) that will copy to both.

As a workaround for problem #2 the observers alias will need to be moderated, so that messages posted to it by non-subscribers can be manually approved for distribution.