# JSR 348 Working Group Meeting Minutes  
29 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday June 29, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

*   Teleconference

## **Agenda**

*   Review [minutes](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-22-Minutes.md) from last week's meeting.
*   Report from Patrick on state of updated docs.
*   Review open items:
    *   Clarify _Terms of Use_ for collaboration software used by Expert Groups.
    *   Maintenance Process clarification.
        *   Comments on the current draft?
        *   Set time-limit for delivery of final materials for Maintenance Release?
    *   Preparation for the Merge.
    *   Section 5: EC Procedures
    *   EC Standing Rules
*   Issue tracking
*   Review scheduleand milestones.
*   Next steps.

### Attendees

*   Patrick Curran
*   David Bosschaert
*   Scott Jameson
*   Roger Mahler
*   Don Deutsch
*   Alex Terrazas
*   Mike DeNicola
*   Werner Keil
*   Ben Evans

### Minutes

_**Review of minutes**_

We were unable to review last week's minutes due to java.net problems.

**_Terms of Use for collaboration software_**

Patrick reviewed the current draft language - basically a "caveat emptor" to the Spec Lead. It was suggested that we might want to issue some kind of warning notice to people who join discussion aliases that their contributions might not be accepted unless they have signed the JSPA. However, we also agreed that vague language such as this would not provide any kind of legal cover, and might in fact be misleading.

This will need further discussion - involving legal advice - but is good enough for EDR.

_**Maintenance**_

We discussed whether Maintenance Leads should be "obliged" to provide the final materials within a certain time-period after Maintenance Review. We agreed that this would be difficult to implement since there are no penalties that we can impose.

Some suggestions were:

*   Ask the ML to provide an estimate of the time they expect to deliver the final materials.
    *   This can't hurt, and might help the PMO to follow-up, but of course would be non-binding.
*   Require the ML to go through Maintenance Review again if they fail to deliver final materials within six(?) months.
    *   The second review couldn't force a change, but this would at least be an incentive for the ML to follow through.
*   Declare the JSR _**Dormant**_ if the ML doesn't deliver within a specified period.
    *   How to get out of this state? Presumably this would need another Maintenance Review, in which case this suggestion is almost the same as the second.
        *   It would apply some extra pressure on the ML.

We agreed to continue this discussion by email. Patrick will start the thread.

**_Preparation for the EC merge_**

We agreed that there is no need to try to "purge" the Process Doc of all references to 2 ECs, the number of members, the terms they serve, etc. Instead, we will introduce a second JSR that will focus only on the merge. We could start working on this as soon as our September EC meeting.

_**Section 5: EC Procedures**_

Patrick will do another pass through this section.

_**EC Standing Rules**_

We agreed to postpone further work on this document until after EDR.

**_Issue Tracking_**

Patrick reported that the JSR1-list has now served its purpose. All of the items on it have now been incorporated into our documents. From now on we should use the issue-tracker to define and track issues. Patrick will send instructions on how to do this when java.net comes back to life.

_**Next steps**_

Patrick to create and circulate "final drafts" of the EDR documents. Mike and Patrick will remind EC members to review these, and to send comments to the alias, before the July 12 EC meeting.

There will probably be no need for a WG meeting next week unless we get significant feedback that needs discussion (neither Patrick nor Eduardo would be able to attend.) Mike will ask EG members to reserve the time-slot anyway in case we need it, and will run the meeting if necessary.