# Minutes of JSR 348 Expert Group Meeting  
8 June 2011

## Meeting details

*   Date & Time
    *   Wednesday June 8, 2011, 8:00 - 9:00 am Pacific time  

## **Agenda**

*   Review minutes from [last week](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-01-Minutes.md)'s and [yesterday](/files/Meeting%20Materials/2011-06-07-Minutes.md)'s meetings.
*   Review [Action Items](/files/Working%20documents/AIs.md).
*   WebEx and/or chat-room?
*   Status of 'observer' feedback.
*   Confirm our starting/working documents (listed [here](https:/github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/pages/WorkingDocuments))
*   How to conduct the reviews and updates.
    *   Entire WG works on everything? Assign sections to individuals?
    *   Review sections outside of meetings, then email proposals to WG?
*   Detailed schedule and milestones.

## **Attendees**

*   Patrick Curran
*   Alex Terazzas
*   Scott Jameson
*   Eduardo Gutentag
*   Mike DeNicola
*   John Weir

## Minutes

### How we will work - assigning tasks

Mike noted that we have very little time to create Early Drafts of the two docs: Process Doc, and Standing Rules. (We need to have these completed by the July 12 EC meeting.) We won't complete this work if we don't set ourselves targets, and if we don't do work between meetings.

Alex suggested: breaking up the documents so that different people can work on them simultaneously.

We updated the [JSR1 list](/files/Working%20documents/JSR1-list-June08.md), assigning a number and an owner to each proposed change. Before the next meeting owners will review their tasks and will email the Experts alias with suggested document changes or additions. For example:

> To: experts@jsr348.java.net  
> Subject: Suggested change for JSR1 list item 1.3.1 (change logs)  
>   
> Change lines 463-466 of JCP2 NEXT 2.9-Draft6-Clean.pdf to:  
>   
> **definition - Change Log**: An area accessible from the Spec Page that lists all changes made to the Specification, RI, TCK, and licenses since the previous release. There are six sections: PROPOSED (changes not yet made to the Specification), ACCEPTED (changes made to the Specification), DEFERRED (changes to be considered in a new JSR) and RI (changes made to the RI), TCK (changes made to the TCK) and LICENSING (changes to licensing terms.)

Eduardo will act as editor, incorporating the suggested changes after any discussion. However, he will be on vacation/traveling late in June and early in July, so someone else will need to take over the editor role during that period.

<span class="highlight">NOTE: The Process Document is currently structured to mirror the various JSR stages. This means that there's no logical place to put new requirements that aren't tied to a particular stage. In order to avoid duplication we agreed to add a **_General Procedures_ _(Section 0)_** at the beginning of the document for requirements that apply to all of the subsequently-described stages</span>

A couple of significant Cleanup tasks have been assigned to Eduardo (these are already completed?) but for other cleanup work we agreed not to explicitly assign. Instead, as people review the documents they should email the alias with any suggested cleanup tasks.

### Micro schedule before the next full meeting of the Expert Group (at the July EC meeting)

*   June 15 First cut/feedback on each section from assignees
*   June 22 Refine/complete (Eduardo will have integrated suggestions)
*   June 29 Earl draft ready for review
*   July 6 Finish/polish EDR for submission to full EG at July 12 meeting
*   July 12 EC meeting

The goal for the Early Draft Review is to have restructured both documents with at least preliminary text for all suggested changes and additions. We will refine the actual words later.

### Availability of current attendees over the next month

*   Alex: OK
*   John: OK (will be in Bangalore next week)
*   Scott will miss June 15 and June 22 meetings
*   Patrick: OK
*   Eduardo: will miss June 29, and possibly July 6
*   Mike: not available on June 22

Mike agreed to email the Experts alias requesting additional participation and encourage members to follow the discussion. He will also remind EC members that we are planning on operating completely transparently. This means that they will receive copies of all the messages suggesting and discussing proposed changes to the documents.

### WebEx and/or chat-room?

We agreed that since WebEx provides a built-in chat, and also a "raise hands" feature, we will stick with it for now. (But we will plan on using these features more.)

### Status of 'observer' feedback.

Patrick reported that so far we have no "external" observers since we haven't yet advertised that we're open for business. We will do so soon, and will continue to monitor the situation.

Update: 3:00 pm June 6\. We are now public (see [http://blogs.oracle.com/java/entry/jcp_next_update](http://blogs.oracle.com/java/entry/jcp_next_update)) and we have our first external observer.