## Open Issues: August 31, 2011

(Latest issue listed here: #96)

### In process

*   [JSR348-9:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87) [Oracle should encourage other Spec Leads of in-flight JSRs to join them in voluntarily adopting the new Process once the JSR is finalized](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-9)
*   [JSR348-68:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87) [Clarify that the JSPA is sufficient for contributions](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/63)

### Trivial: we have a suggested change - just implement it

*   [JSR348-90:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87) [Do we need the defined term Release?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/85)[](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/82)

### Simple: need suggested change

*   [JSR348-71:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/78) [Issue Tracker should be a defined term](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/66)
*   [JSR348-89:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87) [Make the list of Definitions more like an index, with "virtual entries" pointing to others](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/84)
*   [JSR348-93: Comments on the Standing Rules from Anish Karmarkar](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87)

### Simple: needs further discussion

*   [JSR348-64:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/72) [Should there be a limit on the number of members from a single company/organization who can join an Expert Group?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/62)
*   [JSR348-77: Sections 1.2.3 and 1.7 overlap too much and should be merged](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/72)
*   [JSR348-84: Should Mailing List be a defined term?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/79)
*   [JSR348-87: The definition of Profile Specification contains normative requirements that should be moved to the body of the document](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/82)
*   [JSR348-95:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/82) [Section 1.1.2 needs a little rewording to alleviate ambiguities](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/89)
*   [JSR348-96:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/82) [Specifications should be directly available as HTML on the web](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/90)

### Moderate: needs further discussion

*   [JSR348-34:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/81) [Permit Spec Leads to submit no quarterly certification report if nothing has changed](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/32)
*   [JSR348-56: Should we shorten the time-out periods?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/54)
*   [JSR348-57: Distinction between JSR "ballots" and EC "votes" is still not entirely clear](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/81)
*   [JSR348-83: Spec Lead v. Spec Lead Member](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/78)
*   [JSR348-92:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/87) [The JSPA contains definitions - verify that Process Doc definitions do not conflict](http://java.net/jira/browse/JSR348-92)
*   [JSR348-94: Spec leads can end-of-life a Specification, withdraw licenses](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/88)
*   **Classes of membership**
    *   [JSR348-8: The prohibition on employees of JCP Members voting or running for election as individuals doesn't go far enough](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/8)
        *   Closed
    *   [JSR348-86: Improve clarity of Member definition](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/81)
        *   Continue the discussion here.

### Moderate: need suggested change

*   [JSR348-74:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/4) [Refactor the balloting requirements to reduce duplication](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/69)

### Complex: needs further discussion

*   **Clarify the Maintenance Release process and harmonize with the regular Release process**
    *   [JSR348-4: Should Maintenance Leads be obliged to provide the final materials within a specified time-period after Maintenance Review](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/4)?
        *   Yes - we just need to choose the actual time-period. Generalized [JSR348-56: Should we shorten the time-out periods?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/54) to cover Maintenance also, and then closed this issue.
    *   [JSR 348-32:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/65) [Make the requirement to maintain a Change Log optional?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/30)
        *   Closed
    *   [JSR 348-62:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/65) [Add an additional vote type to section 6 called "Conditional Yes"](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/60)
        *   Closed
    *   [JSR 348-70: Simplify Maintenance Review process by eliminating Item Exception Ballot and Change Log](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/65)
        *   This is where the discussion should take place. Create a draft document and upload it to Working Documents rather than incorporating it into a comment.
    *   [JSR 348-79:](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/65) [Should the Process Document specify what is appropriate for a Maintenance Release?](https://github.com/jcp-org/jsr348/issues/74)
        *   Still open. This is a separate discussion.